.TH DUVIS 1 "2014-06-09"
.SH NAME
duvis \- visualization of du disk usage information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B duvis
.I [-gpr0]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I duvis
program provides a visualization of the output of
.IR du (1)
suitable for understanding how storage is being used. The
output of
.I duvis
is the paths that were input, with
only the last component shown except at the root, indented
according to nesting depth, and sorted at each level by
decreasing size, with ties broken alphabetically.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -g
Output to
.I xdu
style graphical user interface.
.IP -p
Processes
.I du
output as preorder. This involves
an extra sorting step that is of no benefit
on pristine
.I du
output.
.IP -r
Outputs the raw entry table rather than processed
stats. Slightly faster, but mostly useful for debugging.
.IP -0
Assumes input lines are terminated by null characters rather
than newlines, as produced by
.IR "du -0" .
Any large filesystem likely has some pathnames with newline
characters in them, but nulls are illegal in pathnames.
.SH USAGE
.PP
As with
.IR xdu ,
you invoke
.I duvis
on the output of
.IR du ;
currently the
.I du
output is read from standard input, so
either a pipe or a file is fine. The
.I du
output must be
complete, in the sense that every prefix of every path in
the file has an entry (with the exception of the common
prefix that was given to
.IR du );
both relative and absolute
paths work.
.PP
The preferred
.I du
command is
.I du -a0
or
.IR "du -ax0" ;
note that the
.I -0
flag of
.I duvis
is necessary to parse this.
.SH AUTHORS
.I "Bart Massey <bart@cs.pdx.edu>"
.I "Andrew Graham <graham4@pdx.edu>"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR du ,
.BR xdu
.SH LICENSE
This software is Copyright (c) 2014 Bart Massey. It is
licensed under the "MIT License".  Please
see the file
.I COPYING
in the source distribution of this
software for license terms.
